Hey, everyone out there on the live stream. Thanks for watching. Thank you for being here.
Great to have you. Chris, Brian, good to see you too. You all about ready to kick this
off?
I'm ready.
All right. So let's go ahead and get started. Hello, and welcome to Python Bytes, where
we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode 240, recorded
July 1st, 2021, how time does fly.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
- And I'm Brian Okken.
- And I'm Chris Moffett.
- Hey, Chris, welcome to the show.
- Thank you, great to be here.
- Yeah, it's great to have you here.
We've had you talking about the missteps of Excel
and how the Python data tools chain can make that better
over on Talk Python a few times.
This is your first time on Python Bytes, right?
- It is, yes.
- Yeah, exciting to have you here.
- Definitely, definitely.
I already see some local messages in the live chat
that we'll come to near the end, I think.
We'll make that an extra one, Brian.
But maybe you wanna go ahead and kick us off?
- Yeah, sure.
So we, let's see.
Yeah, there we go.
We're talking about, actually, subclassing and,
we wanna talk about subclassing today,
but Hinnick wrote an article called Subclassing in Python.
And dealing with classes is just everywhere in Python.
Even if you're not using classes,
Python itself has all sorts of classes and objects
that you're using all the time, whether you know it or not.
But when you start getting into larger design,
there is a question around composition versus inheritance and stuff.
So I really like this article that Hinnick put together
because I think people should think about the ramifications more.
So the general gist is he prefers composition over inheritance,
and I do too.
And but then goes through, if you have to do inheritance,
and sometimes you do in Python, for instance,
the greatest example I know of is when you're having
exception hierarchies. And it's really easy to build up exception hierarchies
in Python. And there's like nothing there except for like the class definitions and their inheritance.
And that's it.
Easiest class you've ever created. Class, exception name, pass.
Yeah. But it's useful to do that. But then if you want to go further,
there's other design patterns and stuff, especially from the C++ world,
where people might be thinking, well, I want to do something similar in Python and stuff.
And so this is actually kind of a really great
article, the discussion about it. It's pretty long.
I don't want to summarize it too much, but I'll jump into the three types.
So he talks about three types of subclassing that often happens.
Subclassing for code sharing.
And the short answer is, it's just,
people are trying to do the dry principle and try to share code.
And it's just it ends up being a bad idea, essentially.
And there's a bunch of references for it.
And if you don't, I think if you don't believe me,
or him, read this article and read a bunch,
he's got a whole bunch of linked articles too that discuss it.
But I kind of agree.
The second type is inherited,
is abstract data types or interfaces
in a lot of languages are called interfaces.
And this is kind of a neat use of it.
And there's a bunch of things.
But it's, it's a, and I thought, okay, yeah, you definitely will use
inheritance and composition for, for data type stuff.
But there's, in his discussion,
he talks about some of the cool things that Python has
that allow you to have these sort of hierarchies
without actually doing subclassing.
So there's some cool features of Python,
like the protocol syntax that came in recently
in typing that protocol.
>> Protocols like formal duck typing,
which is an odd thing to combine, but yes.
>> Yeah. But it's really cool how it's put together in Python, so I like that.
Then lastly is specialization,
and that's where exception hierarchies come in.
But also, he's got a great discussion
about structuring data classes that have common elements.
And I think that's an interesting discussion too.
And I think I already said this,
the summary really,
it's really hard to summarize this article
other than it's good to think about your design,
especially if you're gonna try to bring subclassing into it.
So please do that.
- Yeah, awesome.
I haven't had a chance to dive into this article,
but I do wanna read it and explore it.
You know, it touches on a couple of things,
like it touches on namespaces and modules,
which I think is pretty interesting.
so many people coming from C++, C#, Java, et cetera,
like all these really strongly OOP,
especially C# and Java, where everything has to be a class.
You'll see people creating classes
just for things like static variables and so on, right?
Or static functions.
If you just have a bunch of static functions,
you know what works really well for that?
A module that has functions in it, right?
That's the same thing.
You import module, then you say module.functionName
is the same as from module import class,
class.static function name, right?
Like it's just a layer that doesn't really need to be there.
So the article touches on that, which I think is neat.
Like sometimes you just don't need those.
And then also the composition over inheritance.
I think composition over inheritance
is a really important thing to think about
'cause so often people say, well, you can't use OOP
because it's horrible in all these ways.
And you end up with like a robotic duck that can't quack.
I don't know, like you end up with these weird situations.
If you like derive too many things,
and you put a weird specialty on the end.
You're like a duck is an animal, but it has wings,
but wait, now it's a robot.
Now, why does it eat water?
You know, it's like what happened to it, right?
But the composition allows for you
to keep things much more tight and small
in the inheritance stack,
but still put them together in meaningful ways.
So anyway, yeah, I wanna see more about this.
This looks great.
- And I'm coming from a standpoint of,
I'm a C++ person as well, and I've done both extremes.
I've gone way down the inheritance hierarchy thing
and had like seven deep in the hierarchy,
maybe not seven, but like five deep
and it gets to be a nightmare.
So then I went to the other direction
and didn't do any inheritance at all in a design,
but there's problems there too.
So thinking about it and doing it smartly
is you just need to.
- It's often like salt.
I could see, it's really good when you have some.
Try to go like salt's great,
I'm gonna have that for dinner.
Like, no, no, you shouldn't do that.
(laughing)
- I think the other thing that's really important
about this is depending on how long you've been working
in Python, sometimes you kind of get stuck in a rut
and you're always doing the same thing
and the language has evolved and grown over time.
And so I think articles like this kind of force you
to take a step back and see if you're using
all the new features in a way that maybe aren't idiomatic.
- Yeah, yeah, absolutely, absolutely.
Also quick comment out there from the live stream.
Paul says, "First time watching the live stream."
Hey Paul, weird seeing everyone when they say the intro.
Indeed, it is kind of weird,
but I wanna highlight this one to say hi to Paul.
Thanks for being here.
But also if you're listening and you're like,
hey, I'd kind of like to see what's on the screen
while you're all talking about this,
you'll follow us on YouTube.
There's like a live stream menu right on Python by Sod FM.
So it's easy to sign up for that.
And also Sam out there in the live stream
following up on that says,
I'm currently maintaining a library with a deep templated class and hierarchies.
It's very hard to keep track of it all.
Yeah, I hear you that. That's for sure.
All right, let's switch over to the next one.
Now, I tried to resist this, Brian. I promise I did.
But I've ended up with an extra extra with seven more extras here all about it.
And it just had to become a main item because otherwise we'd be here for hours,
which is not the idea of the show.
So we've got an extra extra, you know about it, nine extras.
Let's pull them up.
Action number one, we've talked about Pyodide.
I had a whole talk Python episode on Pyodide,
which is an interesting thing.
It is this project by Mozilla,
where you take Python and you run it in the browser,
and then you take many of the data science packages
like NumPy and Matplotlib and stuff
and compile them into the browser.
And then you basically have client-side Python data science,
which is really interesting.
This project is being spun out as its own topic,
as its own project.
It's no longer under Mozilla.
Usually, that doesn't sound good to me.
It kind of sounds like it's been orphaned.
I have no idea what the status of PyOdyte is.
People can check that out, but it's no longer under Mozilla.
It's its own separate thing, as they say.
So it's cruising out there.
And also it didn't get compiled to JavaScript,
it got compiled to WebAssembly,
which is interesting 'cause that's much faster.
All right, that's number one.
Number two, I just, as in a couple hours ago,
released a brand new course,
Python-powered chat apps with Twilio and SendGrid.
So the idea is if you wanna have some kind of chat bot,
but a lot of that conversation has to involve
your database and your data and verifying things,
like the app that we built here is a tech-savvy bakery
where you can order cakes by sending it a WhatsApp message.
And then it'll say, "Hey, you want a cake?
Well, here's the menu."
And it actually gets the menu from our Flask app.
And then they pick something off the menu.
And then once they pick all the details,
they said like this, "Okay, great."
We send it back to our website
and figure out how much that's gonna cost.
They order it, goes back, we send them a,
if once they accept it,
they get like a customized pretty email.
It goes back to the backend, the bakers bake it.
It sends them another message to let them know.
So if you wanna build kind of like that workflow,
if Twilio and SyncGrid, check it out.
This course is super fun.
It's six hours and it's 100% free.
So people can check that out.
That I think if you're trying to build that kind of thing,
that'll be a lot of fun.
So links in the show notes there.
I had something.
Yes.
- If I can't afford free, can I get a discount code?
- Dude, I will give anyone listening 50% off that.
So I have this really cool tweet.
And Twitter is broken from what I can tell for everything that's not the home page.
So something went wrong, but let me describe it.
So when you look at it in the show notes, you'll be able to see
there's a really cool tweet from Nick Moll, who was the guest on the show last week.
Oh, you got it? How can you get this to work?
You've got some sort of magic. All right.
So thanks for putting it on your screen.
Here we have Will McGuinn,
Gugin, showing an animation of basically
this really cool, like collapsible sidebar
and like scrolling within sub windows
inside of Textual, right?
We talked about Textual as well.
And it's just such a cool graphic that says like,
wow, you can build some pretty amazing applications there.
What do you think?
- Will's just docking out of the park with this.
It's fun to watch him go so fast.
Absolutely.
Well done there.
Well, I'll switch back to mine for a moment.
Okay.
ours tech network works on my computer.
So remember we did an episode and I titled it something like
flock no or something like that.
So flock federated learning of cohorts is something that Google was trying to do.
so that they can replace third party cookies.
Why?
Because people are running ad blockers
or like I am right now, a VPN that at the network level
blocks all the ad tracking and third party cookies.
So they're just basically not working very well anymore.
So they need to, they're gonna cancel third party cookies
with Chrome, which means they're canceling
for the net, the internet.
And, but because they're Google
and they're based on ad revenue primarily,
They can't just go, and we canceled tracking.
Hooray, we're all winning on privacy.
It has to be replaced with some other form of tracking,
which they call this federated learning of cohorts.
But the federated learning of cohorts
has all these almost more negative consequences.
And I don't wanna go too much into that
because we went into quite a lot of detail.
But for example, you can say,
I would like to target lesbians who just got divorced.
You run an ad on that, people show up on your site,
they sign up, you have an email, and now guess what?
Not only do you know what their email is,
you know that they're in this group
and maybe this is the very first time
you've ever met them, right?
So really weird, creepy stuff
that you could like pull out with this.
Anyway, the big news is Google delays the rollout till 2023
because you know what?
People don't like it.
They're not super keen about it.
So there's a whole bunch of people who are against that.
- But you're saying they're just delaying it,
not stopping it?
- Yes, for now.
This is a great RSTack article that people should check out.
Let me read the first sentence or two.
Google's plan to upend web advertising and user tracking
by dropping third-party cookie support in Chrome
has been delayed.
Most browsers block third-party tracking cookies now,
as do VPNs, like I mentioned.
But Google, the world's largest advertising company,
It wasn't going to follow suit
without protecting its business model first.
But there's a lot of challenges with this.
A lot of people have come out against it.
And yeah, it's not gonna work out super well.
So they decided to delay it.
That's what they said.
Stage two starts mid 2023.
- Google says it's received substantial feedback.
- Including from us.
Other companies out there are like,
"We kind of want to keep tracking too,
but we're not really excited about this,
so we're just going to not say anything."
Like Apple, Opera, Mozilla, Microsoft,
yeah, they're like, "Ah, we're not so sure about this."
Anyway, yeah, they've received substantial feedback.
So hooray, I think, for now.
One thing that we don't talk very often about in Python is,
what if you want to ship your code to somebody
and it has sensitive algorithms in it?
It's not that common, but you could get py2exe or py2app bundle up your code and give it to somebody, for example, Dropbox does something to this effect, right?
You've got your Python code running up in your little menu bar.
And there's other ones as well.
But you might want to encrypt how that works or protect how that works.
So people can't just open the py files and look around.
So there's this thing called Source Defender.
I'll be clear, this is a paid commercial product.
I have no affiliation, but they pointed out, they sent me a message.
Hey, we're doing this thing. What do you think?
It looks kind of interesting. I think it's going to be a pretty limited
set of people who actually care about this.
Like if you're running on Docker, you're running on the server, you probably don't care.
Maybe you do, but probably not. But if you'd like to be able to encrypt
your source code, so it's much harder to see,
and then ship that to somebody, you can use this thing as part of their paid service.
So that's kind of cool. People can check that out.
Let's see. Oh, this is going to play noise. I want that.
So I was recently interviewed on a day in the life and a work from home Pythonista, which is a cool
series being done by the folks in the Philippines.
If you want a tour of the behind the scenes studio and all the work from home stuff, people can check that out.
Python 3.9.6 was just released. We can check out the changelog and see what's happening there. There's a security
HTTP client about what I think is like a denial of service.
It sounds like it avoids an infinite loop sort of thing.
So that might matter to people.
Probably not, but maybe it does.
Then a bunch of changes that are happening here,
including platform specific ones.
So if you're running Python 3.9, and why wouldn't you be?
Update that.
Because you're running 3.10.
- 10.
- Yes, that's right.
You're already ahead of the world.
You're in the future.
So also we had Calvin on from six feet up a while ago.
And we talked about the conference
that he was putting together.
Well, the videos from that conference
are out as a YouTube playlist.
So people can check that out.
I don't remember how many videos there are.
Let's click on it and see.
There are 61 videos,
including one on the Python memory deep dive talk
that I gave.
So if people wanna check that out, they can.
Let's see.
Check this out, Brian.
Have you seen this?
Did you know you can pip install Python bytes?
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- You can literally pip install Python bytes
because of Scott Stoltzman created this for us as a joke.
He was listening to one of our episodes.
I can't remember what we talked about.
This was episode 239,
but we must have talked about packaging and pip
and things like that.
So he created a package called Python bytes.
And what it does is basically you give it a number
like 240 and it would download this version
as an MP3 file and put it right next to,
you know, whatever the working directory is.
So if you want to pip install Python bytes
and then pythonbytes.downloadepisode,
instead of using a podcast player,
we're all for that.
You can check that out.
Yeah, that's it.
- It's extra, extra, extra, extra, well, many, many extras.
- Yeah, so the Python bytes package is just sort of,
was for fun, but it also, it's really small.
And one of the things I like about it is
it's just a really cool example of like with Python,
you got something that downloads MP3 files
off of a feed somewhere.
It's that easy.
It's just, that's pretty cool.
- Yeah, that's fantastic.
Absolutely. - Absolutely.
All right, let's see a couple things from the live stream.
Sam says, "Things have happened with Mozilla
"the last two years that really shook
"my confidence with them."
I am still a big fan of Firefox and I support their mission
but yeah, I wanna see them succeed.
Let's see, another one from the live stream.
Antonio said, "Hey guys, have you mentioned Kibbe before?"
Hey, GUIs and Kibbe, there you go.
I watched a video about it this week.
It's a GUI that's compatible with many things,
including the mobile devices.
I do, my feeling is that Kivy is a lot about,
it's more about building almost game-like interactions,
whereas a lot of GUIs people want,
they want like, here's a text box,
I type in the text box, here's a button I drop in.
So, but yeah, pretty cool.
Well, let's see.
Kim VanWijk says, "As an aside,
"shipping a Docker image won't obfuscate the Python.
the image can be taken apart and files like that.
That's true, they absolutely can.
I was just thinking like you're probably just running on
like a container service.
But yeah, if you're shipping it to someone, it's the same.
Nick Harvey on the live stream says,
could just send the PYC files with no PY.
It's not foolproof, but it does require more work.
You're right, you'd basically be down to like dis.dis
and like reading the bytecode.
Yeah, for sure.
Let's see.
- Final one, Rayhan says,
"If it ends up running code on your machine,
"you can read it.
"It's about putting enough barriers
"that people won't bother."
Yeah, that's definitely true.
I mean, you think of C++ and things like that
being completely opaque,
and yet people take that apart all the time.
But there is also a difference
from I'm literally shipping you the source files here,
to, you know, 'cause then you could go in like,
oh, here's where the license check is.
Let's just, you know, command slash, comment that out.
All right, now we're ready to run.
- Yeah.
- Right, you wanna make it a little bit
of a challenge at least I suspect.
Anyway, thanks for all the feedback out there everyone.
That's the everything extra, extra nine times.
All right, Chris, what's your first one here?
- All right, so the first one is from Andreas Kahns,
I think is how you pronounce it.
And it's a library called Clib, I believe.
I wasn't sure if it's Caleb or Clib, but I think it's Clib.
And it's for automated cleaning of pandas data frames.
I guess I should even say it's a little bit more
than just cleaning, it's automated analysis.
And I'll be the first to say, I'm a little skeptical
about some things that try and automate the process,
but I was playing around with it.
And there's some pretty cool things that it does.
The documentation, probably the best way to learn about it
is the Towards Data Science article that he wrote,
which gives a pretty nice overview of what it does.
It has some, as I mentioned,
some pretty nice cleaning features
as well as analysis features.
So I was going to kind of go through a couple of the,
describe a couple of things.
The first one that I thought was really interesting is
there's this function called data cleaning
and it essentially does, you can control what it does.
So it can clean column names, it can convert data types,
it can drop missing.
So one of the things that pandas does is,
it's not really aggressive about the size
or the data types that it uses.
So when you read in data,
it will just kind of assign it maybe to a float
or an object.
But if you want, you can get in there
and if it's a value, if it's a column,
let's say that it has only values from less than 100,
if you convert it to an integer, it saves memory.
if you save enough memory,
then you can actually speed up your code.
And so this goes behind the scenes
and takes your data frame
and converts it essentially to the smallest value,
NumPy value that it can store.
And then, you know, I took a random data set
and sure enough, it did reduce the memory footprint
quite a bit, which I thought was pretty interesting
'cause it's one of those things that is very tedious
to do on your own by hand.
- Does it do, like if you have the same string,
does it just create a pointer to one copy
instead of having that many times, stuff like that?
- It can do that by converting it to a category type.
That's essentially what pandas is doing.
When you create a category,
it does that to kind of string to like a list conversion
and it's pretty effective.
And yeah, I've used the category piece before,
but I haven't actually gone in and tried to,
shorten up the numeric columns, which is really useful.
- You just convert them to all the integers
and then it'll just be shorter.
So you don't have to worry about the size.
I'm just teasing.
- Yeah, yeah.
- You probably need a 20 point.
- Yeah, no.
But I mean, it does even do,
it's like it can do even like int 16s or int 32s or--
- Oh yeah, interesting.
Like it'll shrink to the size,
oh, these are all under 256,
so we'll go to like one byte.
- Exactly, exactly.
You know, and I haven't looked at the code to see,
you know, how it actually figures it out,
but I had a fairly large data frame
and it was pretty quick.
The other one that was interesting is the clean column names.
So I think there are some other libraries out there that will like strip spaces or special characters from column names.
But what this one will actually do is actually, if you have a column name that has, let's say camel case,
it'll convert it to all underscore, or it will just essentially normalize all of your column names,
which, you know, you could have a debate about whether you want to do that.
but when you have a data frame that has a lot of columns
and you're just looking at it the first time,
that can really be helpful.
And then the other function that it does
that works pretty well is for cleaning duplicate data
or empty data.
So if you have a lot of columns that have no values in it
or just maybe 90% of the values are empty,
you can set thresholds and just clean that all out.
So I was playing around with it and I was pretty impressed.
And I kind of wanted to call it out
because the documentation right now
is mostly around the Jupyter notebooks that he has.
So I think it would be nice if we could get some,
get some more docs in there and some more examples.
But overall, I was really impressed with the library
and I think people should kind of take a look at it
and see if it's something they wanna use
for some of their own processes.
- Yeah, some of them sound interesting,
even if you don't have to trust it, right?
Like the shrink to the smallest data set,
data type, for example, or normalized column names,
those don't seem as risky as, you know, clean it up.
- Exactly. - Find the wrong data.
- Exactly, and then I forgot to mention,
it also has some nice correlation plots.
And some of these things you can already do
with Seaborn or Matplotlib,
but I found that it gives you a little more control
and it's just a little bit easier to do it.
There are certainly other tools out there
that do this as well.
Oh, and then the categorical data plots,
I thought was a nice summary of the data
and gives you some nice graphs
and it helps you understand
where you've got some missing values.
But yeah.
- Yeah, the visualizing the missing data
It's a really interesting feature.
Yeah, and there is another pandas data frame called missing no
that does this and does it well.
But I think this is a unique combination,
especially some of the data,
the memory saving features that it has are pretty neat.
Yeah, so the cleaning features, though, have a lot of
there's a lot of parameters to it, so it looks like you have a lot of control.
And one of the I mean, again, this is open source,
So it isn't that magical.
You can just look at the source and see what it's doing.
So it looks--
>>Exactly, yeah.
And that was one of the things I was looking at is
like data cleaning, I think is kind of the top level
and you can just run that wide open and it'll do everything.
And it actually prints out a pretty nice summary
of what it does, but you can also go in there
and specify parameters, like you said, to control it.
So that maybe it doesn't rename the columns
or drop some of the missing data.
The other thing that I tried to play with
that seemed really interesting
is this pool duplicate subsets.
And essentially what it tries to do,
and I had a little bit of trouble with this
'cause I think I put too much data at it,
but it tries to, maybe if you have 10 columns of data,
it says, well, you know what?
Four or five of them are very heavily correlated.
So we're gonna drop them and just give you the four or five
that are actually most useful.
And so I think that's some interesting tools to use when you get some data that maybe you haven't worked with before.
Yeah.
Yeah, very nice.
What a good find. Awesome.
Brian, you got the next one?
Sure, yeah.
Just a second.
So I wanted to remind people to every once in a while look at funk tools.
Because I've experienced FuncTools as kind of an interesting library,
or a library that's built in, that is, it kind of grows with you.
So if you're new to Python and you look at it, it's going to be confusing.
It's like all intermediate stuff in there.
But as you learn and experience more Python programming,
come back to it every once in a while, because there's stuff in there that you'll use
that you didn't think about before.
So I'm going to go through a few things.
And actually, I wanted to call out,
there was an article by Martin Hines that
I read that kind of reminded me to go through and look this.
So I want to shout out to him. Thanks.
We've talked about some of this stuff before.
We talked about function overloading
and using single dispatch as part of,
is one of the ways you can do function overloading in Python,
which is cool, and that's part of FuncTools.
And hopefully people are familiar with wraps.
Wraps is a way to create decorators that act like the thing that you decorated.
And so if you're writing decorators, make sure you check out wraps.
And then caching as well.
I think, I'm sure we've talked about LRU cache, but...
- I'm sure we have, yeah. - Yeah, so...
That's in func tools, the caching and new in three nine, there's a there's a just a simple cache.
You don't have to say or you cache and it's just a convenience wrapper around LRU cache.
But it also there's no max size.
So you don't want to do that for things that you actually want to throw throw items away.
But caching is super cool.
So check that out.
And then I first saw the LRU cache.
I'm like, "Whoa, I got to go figure out what this LRU is."
And it's not like rather than just like cache the response.
I guess the other question though you might be is like,
"Well, what if you pass two variable or two arguments or sets of arguments?
How did those?"
Yeah.
So either way, it's kind of not 100% totally obvious what's going to happen.
But yeah, it's very cool.
Yeah.
So there's a bunch of caching stuff in there like the LRU cache,
but then you can also cache a property.
And actually, the property one I hadn't used before,
but I was playing with it this morning and it's really cool.
For instance, if you've got a data class or any class that has a bunch of stuff,
and some of the things,
you have an expensive read on one of those because you have to calculate the value.
You can throw a cache property on it and it looks pretty cool.
One of the neat things about it is,
So it only reads it once, and then it caches the value of the property.
And if you need it to refresh, you call delete on it,
which is kind of weird, but kind of cool also.
But it's odd to call delete on something that you want to still be there,
and it'll just reread it next time. So that's how that works.
That is weird. That's definitely weird.
Total ordering I didn't realize was there.
You can, so if you have something that you,
some data type that you want to be able to compare,
you can use total ordering to define equal in one other operator,
and then you get all of the comparison operators to show up.
You can use that.
And then the last one I wanted to highlight is partial method,
which partial and partial method,
which these are kind of neat in that,
like, let's say, you've got
a function that takes a whole bunch of arguments, but you want to
pre-fill some of those in and create a new function that has some of the arguments pre-filled in.
You can do that with this and it's pretty neat.
Yeah, okay, interesting. I see you partially supply some of the arguments but not all of them.
Yeah, so just a shout out to this that
Yeah, these are intermediate or advanced topics, but they're, so as you learn more Python, come back to this every once in a while, and you might just find it useful.
Yep, indeed. I was like, how did I miss this cached property thing? Like, surely I would have paid attention to that. Because what, so often these properties that are like computed things, but they often don't change.
You get something back from the database, you want to,
it has time stored in seconds, you want to know how many days it is
so something happens, you might have a days property, right?
But that's probably not going to change.
So having that cache is cool,
if you're sure it's not going to change.
But I'm like, how did I miss it? It's new in 3.8.
It's not super old.
And like Chris said, one of the reasons to revisit a lot of these things
and pay attention to the news on Python
is because the language changes like this.
Yeah, for sure.
Kim out there in live stream says,
"Also worth looking at inner tools from time to time."
Definitely.
Indeed. It's in the same level of complexity,
but for collections.
It's kind of like that.
You wouldn't first go there, but eventually like,
"Oh, yeah, this is what I wanted. I just didn't know it."
Speaking of things you didn't know it,
let me scare you all a little, make you all delighted.
I don't know. You tell me how you take to this.
So let me set the stage.
GitHub has a little bit of source code,
much of it actually public, right?
Like it's public repos and whatnot.
So it can be analyzed and talked about and shared
or used to train an artificial intelligence,
which is pretty crazy.
And if you look at the artificial intelligence around text,
there's the GPT-3 stuff,
which is like scary, good text-based AI.
Well, they decided,
what if, you know, our parent company
also makes this editor?
what if we created an AI based on understanding
the source code from GitHub,
like all the source code from GitHub,
and put it into VS Code, and then it did stuff?
Have you all seen this?
It's called GitHub Copilot.
- Yeah.
- Yeah?
- I was gonna put the link in there and you beat me to it.
- Oh yeah, I was on top of it.
So if you go over here,
there actually works for TypeScript, Go, Ruby, Python,
a couple other languages.
It says it works for many languages, but it's best on those, of course.
But if you just look at their homepage, the copilot.github.com,
they've got this little animation and it says,
I'm going to write a function that says parse expenses,
and it takes some kind of text, and you put a doc string,
literally a doc string in Python, it says parse the list of expenses
and return the list of tuples, date, value, currency,
ignore lines starting with hash, parse using date time,
Here are some examples.
Tab, and then it writes the code that does that.
And let's see, what is it gonna do?
It says, it's in the middle of animation,
it creates a list of expenses.
It goes through each line on split.
It says if the line starts with hash,
this is all Python code, continue on your loop.
Otherwise, date value currency equals split it.
And then it knows how to parse the date one,
convert the value to a float,
and then store the currency as a string.
It's not just that sometimes it'll do this,
you can actually get alternate implementations by tabbing
through its recommended solution, which is pretty crazy.
This is powered by OpenAIs.
What's it called? It's called Codex or something like that.
I don't see it right here right now.
Anyway, I'll try to run across it in a second.
That's what it's powered by.
It says things like,
like you're the pilot.
So with GitHub Copilot, you're always in charge.
You can cycle through alternative suggestions
and choose which to accept or reject
and then manually edit the suggested code.
Oh yeah, and it learns from you.
So I don't know, this is wild.
Y'all, this is pretty wild stuff here.
What do you think?
- Yeah, I think it's really impressive.
I mean, it will be interesting to see what it's like
and use it in real life.
And I think that there could certainly be limitations,
but I don't know about you,
but whenever I'm programming,
there's always these things I just need to go
and look at the documentation
or look at stack overflow to refresh.
- Like I got to connect the SQLAlchemy
and I totally forgot how to do those three steps
for that connection strings sequence, right?
- Exactly.
- Yeah.
- And I've seen, I saw on Twitter
where someone was throwing a little shade
at that example that you're walking through.
'Cause they said,
"Well, why are you storing the currency as a float?
It should be a decimal
because if you store a currency as a float,
you're gonna have all the rounding issues."
So-
- Well, that's how Superman makes all his money
or the evil villain in Superman.
What was it?
One of those shows.
- Yeah, Richard Pryor
and one of the original Superman.
Yeah.
(laughing)
- Yeah, and it's not just based on the docstring.
Like the example I first spoke about
was you wrote a complex doc string
and then say do that thing,
but you can do it based just on function name.
You can just type a meaningful function name.
What was the example they use?
I can't remember, but yeah.
So you basically just write a doc string,
a comment, a function name,
or even some code to give more context to it,
and then off it goes.
So yeah, pretty neat.
Codex, that's the name of the AI system behind it.
So basically this is a plugin for VS Code,
but a really nice one.
So here's some examples we'll all be familiar with.
So fetch tweets.
And the example here is you literally write
def fetch_tweets_from_user tab.
And then what it auto completes with is,
oh, you're gonna need to pass the username in,
and then here's how you authorize with TweetBee,
set up the API credentials.
And then here's the code you write.
Oh yeah, and here's your return.
Or I wanna do a scatter plot.
And you write import matplotlib.pyplot as plot,
draw scatter plot tab.
And then boom, there it is.
Or memoization.
I wanted to point this one out
'cause of what you're covering, Brian.
It says, oh, here's how you memoize a function,
which is to, if it's passed a set of arguments,
it's always gonna return the same answer.
So just give that answer.
Remember, these arguments equal this return value once it's run.
And it shows how to create a complex decorator
that is going to have a function that remembers the values using caching.
It could just go @functools.cache.
You know what I mean? So there's things like that that it's missing.
Because you could achieve the exact same outcome
with functools.cache.decorators
instead of trying to write a bunch of code that re-implements that.
Anyway, pretty wild thing. I don't know really how to feel about that. But thinking about this today, it's kind of freaking me out, but it's also kind of cool.
Yeah, I wanted to point out a comment that people have been pointing out with relation to this is, is the, you know, I wish we could have just specify what we wanted to do, the computer to do and, and it just does it. And we already have that. It's called code. So anyway,
- Yeah, I don't think this, you know,
people often say things like,
I remember hearing this 20 years ago.
Oh, this low code thing where you create these little boxes
that do stuff and you drag and drop between them.
We're not gonna need programmers anymore.
We're all just gonna become dragger droppies.
And then like you programmers won't be needed.
The business people will just drag and drop
either way to the future.
And that never ever happened, right?
Because well, people got to put them in production.
They've got to debug them.
They've got to scale them and so on.
Yeah.
I think the same thing here, like sure.
It wrote it once, but you can't have a right only experience for your code.
You have to understand your code and be able to evolve your code and work with.
So this might power you into a solution faster, but I don't think it escapes the
need of people doing meaningful software work.
The person that pointed out, and several people pointed out the example of using
of money, of floats and money.
That does highlight one of the problems with something like this, though,
that everybody needs to be careful of, is the code that's generated,
now you have to like, you were already creating,
carefully thinking about it when you were creating it,
but if something else creates it, you've got to scrutinize that
to make sure that's really doing the right thing.
And so you're code reviewing some AI code
while you're coding your own stuff.
It's just a different part of your brain.
You gotta make sure that you're really paying attention.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
And even I was looking at that matplotlib example
and I would even argue that's not really the way
you should do a scatterplot in matplotlib
because you should use the object oriented interface
in matplotlib.
I mean, the code will work,
but I wouldn't advocate that you use that code.
And so to your point,
I think it will be interesting to see
if it does learn on your own coding style.
So does it start to recognize those things that you're always,
you know, like you said, connecting to a database or fetching a file
or doing a certain pandas function?
Will it start to learn that?
I thought I read something about it adapting to you
and it learning from what you're doing,
but I have no idea what that actually means.
Yeah, hopefully it's paying attention.
So if it generates something and you change it to the different method,
and everybody else is doing that also,
maybe they'll stop suggesting the old one
and start suggesting the new one.
- Yeah, I'll, you know, Chris, to your point
about having to like, or maybe it was you, Brian, sorry.
Whoever said about you've got to like criticize this
and you didn't write it, so you basically have to study it
and then understand or understand it and study it
to make sure it's doing the right thing.
You know, I, a couple of years ago, I don't know,
a while ago, I was river floating
and broke my hand on some rocks,
broke my finger in a bunch of places.
My fingers were completely wrapped up all the way to the very tip.
There was no little pecking,
typing while my hand healed.
It was like, "Nope, no."
One-handed, really slow.
So to keep things going, I used voice-to-text to try
to at least keep email flowing for a month or something.
What I found was, I could write pretty decent emails.
It's hard to stop and think in whole sentences the way
the little tools like it to work,
but you can get it to work pretty well.
But the mistakes it makes that are phonetically correct,
but actually what you mean wrong,
like they and they,
or something that sounds like what you said,
but is actually not what you mean to say,
is incredibly hard.
It's much harder to understand and edit
than you would think.
And so things like this,
like, well, I wanted it to do that and I hit tab,
and okay, it's doing,
I feel like there's gonna be a lot of blind spots.
Yeah, well, it did what it says it did.
And I typed the thing and it seems right.
And like, how do you really, really know?
I, it just seems like in the same type of situation,
it's gonna be harder than normal code to check
'cause you didn't have to think through it to create it.
You know?
Yeah, a couple of comments from the live stream.
Rehan, don't give him ideas.
Says, "Greetings Dr. Falcon."
Joshua, where have you been?
let's play thermonuclear war as a doc string.
And Nick says, I can't help but think of Microsoft Tay,
which Microsoft Tay was this really cool bot
that was super good at adapting to stuff.
And they put it on Twitter,
but people decided to like be mean to it
instead of teach it.
I think in like Japanese Twitter,
it became a very kind and intelligent bot,
but on like English Twitter,
it got turned into like a racist, horrible creature,
like right away and they actually had to cancel the project.
So yeah.
And then Arthur says,
the next April Fool's Day prank,
everyone start writing terrible code that influences AI.
And this is why English Day went down the tubes.
Let's see.
And then Sam, for goodness sakes,
don't trade it on GitHub code.
It'll arbitrarily turn on debug mode.
Yeah, perhaps.
Yeah, Kim thinks this is both very impressive and vaguely unsettling.
And that captures what I was thinking.
Rehan, will you go and talk to the marketing people for me?
I'm good with people. That's what I do.
Yeah, okay.
Another thing that's not mentioned here explicitly,
but I think is interesting is this code is coming from GitHub.
Yeah.
When I go and I'm saying like, I'm working on super secret commercial projects for large organization that has lots of people trying to scrutinize it, and I hit memoize tab, it's going to write some amazing code. Oh, by the way, was that GPL?
Where did that code come from?
Right? Like, what's the license of the code that was on GitHub?
Did I just now all of a sudden grab something that turned,
you know, like if I was doing this on Windows and I hit tab,
is Windows now open source?
I don't know.
That's a really interesting point.
And you would think if it was a small startup,
someone will probably sue them.
But, you know, this is Microsoft now.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah.
- Anyway, so I agree with Kim.
This is both very impressive.
If this is the start, like where will it go?
It'd be very amazing,
but it's also vaguely unsettling at the same time.
And I don't know how I feel about it,
other than I wish it was in PyCharm
so I could play with it more often.
All right, Chris, you got the last one?
- I do.
So this is another library called Cats
And it's a time series analysis library
and it's made by the same, well, it's from Facebook.
And a lot of people may have heard of Profit,
which is a library for time series forecasting.
And one of the things that's interesting to me
about Profit and Cats is I think time series forecasting
is something that's really common in the business world.
I mean, you think about trying to forecast sales
or maybe inventory movements or stock prices,
a whole bunch of different use cases for it.
And I think in general,
most organizations don't have a group of PhDs
that are really sophisticated in their analysis.
So people use Excel
and kind of come up with their own approaches.
And that's why I thought Profit was interesting.
And I think this is interesting
because it does come from Facebook
and you have to assume that they've got a lot of smart people
that are doing a lot of forecasting.
And they've taken some of the things
that Profit was good at and added some additional tools.
So before I go too much into cats,
one thing I wanted to mention is,
I did write an article about Profit,
but I think other people, this gentleman, Peter Cotton,
wrote an article about Profit
and essentially questioning how good it was.
And this is a really long, really well thought out article
and some of the math and some of the concepts
are way over my head, but I do encourage people
if you're looking at time series forecasting,
take a look at this.
But what CATS does is instead of just doing forecasting
with profit, it has a couple of different models
that you can use.
You can also do some more just basic time series analysis
with it to detect seasonality patterns
and change points and other trends.
There's also, if you want to incorporate this
in some of your other machine learning algorithms
to pull out features from your time series data,
you can do that with this library as well.
And there's a whole bunch of other libraries
or utilities to build like ensemble models
and other approaches for time series forecasting.
This is another one where it is relatively new.
So there's not a whole lot of documentation,
but it's a whole bunch of different Python notebooks,
Jupyter notebooks, I mean.
And like one of the things I think is interesting
is from a forecasting perspective,
you can use Profit, but use the same API
and use Sarama, I think, Sarama, and a whole winners,
as well as some other ensemble models.
You can back test, you can tune your hyperparameters.
And then you can also, it's got several of these other
algorithms for change point detection.
And a lot of this, like I said,
I'm not an expert on the math,
but I am interested in how you figure out
how to take these tools and apply them
to those real world business problems.
And so I think it's really great when we have
some of these libraries out there
that are developed by really smart people
that do understand the state of the art,
that can maybe make it a little simpler for others
to apply to their own unique challenges.
- Yeah, this looks really nice to bundle these all together.
What's a type of problem you might answer with this?
- I think, so one example could be,
help me figure out what my blog or my website traffic
is gonna look like in six months from now.
So I need to figure out, do I need to resize my servers
or upgrade my disk space or--
- What's my AWS bandwidth bill gonna be?
- Exactly.
The other one that I think
it's probably used a lot in inventory.
So trying to figure out,
okay, what do I think sales is gonna look like?
What do I need to reorder
so that I actually have enough product
so that we don't stock out?
I think those are some pretty common use cases.
A lot of the examples here are the airline flight data.
So anything that you have that's over a period of time,
typically kind of on a daily basis over multiple years,
you can then start to forecast out
what those future numbers would look like.
- Then you have this magic prediction power
for the executives.
- Exactly, and I think what's interesting about it
is most of these, I think most times
when people do prediction in Excel,
let's kind of put the numbers in there
and kind of do your linear line.
But these tend to give you more error bars
so you can give a range.
So I think a prediction like this is much more valuable
when you say it could be between 100 and 110
versus it's gonna be 101.5.
And when you do that,
it conveys a lot more precision than is really there.
- Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
Comment from the live stream, Sam Morley says,
When I was experimenting with time series data,
I managed to get better results
with a fairly simple naive Sarma model
than I did using profit.
- Yep, and I think that's exactly what this article,
I don't know if he's read this article,
but this, the article from Dr. Cotton,
that's essentially what he says
is some of the more simple models did outperform profit.
- Yeah, interesting.
Cool, cool.
All right, Brian, is that it for all of our items?
- It is.
- Got any extra stuff you want to throw out there?
- Oh, I just had a, just a quick one.
Somebody on Twitter last week asked,
why did I write a second edition of the book?
And so I thought, well, that's a reasonable question.
So at pytestbook.com, you can go
and I've added a, why a second edition section.
So you can go read that.
- Your built-in fixtures, new flags,
package scope features, f-strings, types,
all sorts of good things are available
that weren't available then, right?
- Yep, yeah, there's all sorts of reasons.
- Always good to see Pathlib there.
I love Pathlib.
It makes my life so much easier when dealing with files.
- I finally made the move.
I put down OS.path and I'm now all about the Pathlib.
Loving it.
- That's good.
- Yeah.
Chris, anything else you want to throw out there?
- I was just going to throw out one other,
I was doing some research for working with units of measure.
And there's a library called UNIT.
- U-N-Y-T.
- U-N-Y-T that allows you to do things
like convert kilometers to miles,
but it works with NumPy.
It works with all the scientific stack.
And that was, I hadn't heard of that one.
I thought it was kind of interesting
and wanted to put that out there.
and next time you need to actually do something with units
and convert back and forth,
might wanna consider that.
And then the other-- - Yeah, it looks like
there's a lot of like physics and chemistry type things
like the mass of the earth,
the radius of the earth as constants,
probably pi and E and all those things.
- Yes, exactly.
And I think it's, when you start getting into it,
there's probably a temptation just to code it all yourself,
just put those constants in there.
But when it starts to get more complicated,
I think something like this could be really useful.
And then there's another approach called Pint,
which also works, there we go,
which also works with units
and it has a little bit different approach.
And so I think it's good to take a look at both of them.
And if you have a need,
then you can decide which API is gonna work best
for your unique situation.
- Yeah, that's cool.
I haven't looked at unit, but I love Pint.
And I think the name is so good.
- It is.
- Because my wife asked me like,
how many ounces are in a pound
or how many pints are in a liter?
I'll be like, or even in, I don't know,
a quart or vice versa.
I'm like, I have no idea.
These are such messed up volume measures.
And so it's like, here's the thing that takes the thing
you don't really know about
and allows you to convert it to the others in a safe way.
It's good.
- Exactly.
- I got one more quick extra throughout as well
for you, Chris there.
I forgot to mention that you are the author
of the "Move from Excel to Python"
with Pandas course over at Talk Python Trainings,
which is a really popular course.
Basically, it's a intro to Pandas course
disguised as solving problems you might with Excel, right?
- Exactly, yeah, yeah, no, thanks.
And I've had a lot of good feedback from folks.
So hopefully it's interesting to the listeners
that haven't had a chance to check it out.
- Yeah. - I might have to buy that
for my boss.
(laughing)
- Maybe you can get that discount code.
- Yeah, yeah, I'll get you the discount code.
All right, you ready for some jokes?
My Twitter came back so I can show the Twitter joke now.
- Yeah.
- All right.
So Dean, who is often,
but I don't see him today on the live stream,
sent a joke over and said,
"Do you know how they say async in Italian?"
Asyncio, or asyncio.
Which I thought was a pretty good one.
Asyncio, asyncio.
I love Italian.
All right. You guys got another one out there? I saw one in the notes, another joke, but
I didn't see you put it there.
I've got one. So does anyone know why cryptocurrency engineers aren't allowed to vote?
No, I don't know.
Because they're miners.
That's a good dad joke.
Yeah, it is.
>> Absolutely. Well, on that high note,
let's call it a show. What do you say?
>> Yeah.
>> Brian, thanks as always.
Chris, thanks for joining us this time.
>> Thank you very much. Really appreciate it.
>> Yeah. Bye, everyone.
[BLANK_AUDIO]